<h3>Reflection #1 – On AI Tools</h3>
The companies that make AI tools and models promise a lot, but we have to remain skeptical of their output and their reach.  Having said that, i believe that LLM’s have already fundamentally changed the way UX/UI is made by having extremely rapid prototyping as an option to test out features and different layouts with the end-users and stakeholders.

Although the output that is generated is, in my opinion, still not production ready, and still needs to be very carefully reviewed, <mark>it’s way more than good enough to build a proof of concept</mark> to give everybody that is involved in the project an idea of how everything will look like when the project is finished, that way the team can pivot in the very early stages.

One drawback that’s very evident is that the designs it produces are very standard and generic, so if the project calls for something more creative, the tools will come short to making the idea a reality since the LLM’s are trained on already existing data. That is something that is also true with no-code alternatives, so it’s to be expected of all tools. <mark>If you want to build test a creative idea, you still need to put in the work.</mark>

<h3>Reflection #2 – HCI, Usability and UX</h3>
HCI is the research that wants to understand user needs and wants, usability measures those needs and wants and UX is a broader perspective that includes usability, user satisfaction, the emotions of the user and the overall experience of using a system or application.

Having said that, for the FCA project, one example of usability is the ease of registering to an event. If the process is confusing or not clear enough, we would not be meeting that usability requirement and we should work to improve it. On the other hand, when we examine that same process from an UX point of view, we include the same usability metrics but also how the user feels throughout the process, all the tasks they have to perform outside of the system to complete it and the security that the task is succesfully completed without error.

One UX feature that could be implemented (in an ideal perfect world) is integrating the user’s SICEI account to validate their status in UADY. That way the user feels safer as it gives credibility to the process and makes the process way easier for UADY staff, students and graduates.

<h3>Reflection 3 – On Lean UX**</h3>

The objective of Lean UX is to obtain feedback in a quick manner so that the development team can pivot and make decisions in an agile environment. To achieve this, instead of working on a set of requirements and then executing on those requirements, <mark>the lean UX technique starts by making assumptions and hypotheses about your end user, prototyping based on those assumptions and lastly validate that prototype. </mark>
At this point in time, our team’s processes cannot be considered lean since we are a bit disorganized. Given the time we have to make this project, it would be a good move to start organizing and implementing lean methodologies as we could start getting results quicker.
Thanks to emerging AI tools, implementing a Lean UX technique would not be as complicated as needed to be, since we can relegate the rapid prototyping task to the tools so that we can focus more on the hypothesizing and validation part of the process.  <mark>I believe that taking this step would be a benefit overall to the effectiveness of the team as a whole.</mark>
 
Interaction Design Foundation. A simple introduction to lean UX. Interaction Design Foundation, 15 March 2016. [Online]. Available: https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/a-simple-introduction-to-lean-ux [Accessed: 21-Feb-2026].

<h3>**Reflection 4 – On Nielsen’s Heuristics**</h3>

Evaluating an ux design using heuristics is a very useful step in the quality assessment of a project, but the most common heuristics, Nielsen's heuristics, may be starting to show their age.  <mark>These heuristic guidelines were made back in the 90's, and the software landscape has changed and advanced in a very fast paced manner, so questioning whether these are still valid for today is something that has been done. ​</mark>
In the paper "EXAMINATION OF THE USE OF NIELSEN’S 10 USABILITY HEURISTICS &OUTLOOKS FOR THE FUTURE", the authors explore this question, compared the method with others (user testing) and concluded that while the principles are still generally accepted, useful and widely used, they need some fine tuning. They performed an evaluation on Youtube and found that the design only obeyed two out of the ten criteria, despite it being one of the most popular websites and highly usable. The paper then goes on to establish that there is an important need for a heuristic evaluation method that is consistent with technology's growth, so it is worth to keep using heuristics tests.​
 <mark>​I believe that every method and process should continually evolve and be kept up to date, the context changes and with that the needs it has to satisfy.</mark>

P. M. Valkenburg and N. B. Peter, “The role of social media in the development of self-identity,” Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking, vol. 16, no. 5, pp. 309–316, 2013.
