**Reflection 1, LLM testing plan comparison**

The result the LLM tool provided was surprisingly complete, even more complete that what my team was planning to produce. One lacking point I detected is that in a completion time metric, it proposed to compare with the moderator’s benchmark, but it did not define what the moderator’s benchmark is. With more analysis of the output more small errors might appear so I believe that a mixed approach is the best one. Have the tool produce a first draft of a plan, making sure the tool has all the relevant context of your project, and then do an in-depth analysis of where it’s lacking and what is possible and what isn’t. After all, we are the ones that know the full context of the project, our team, our client and our environment that these solid-state tools will never be able to assimilate (as of today…).

Prompt: Analize the project in this directory and help me design and write a plan to collect data to validate the operability usability attribute.

LLM and tool used: Deepseek V4 Pro on OpenCode in my laptop’s terminal.


**Reflection 2, Traceability of Efficiency in our project**

Efficiency has always been a priority from the beginning since it's one of the most important end-goals for the FCA department. Efficiency is clearly visible through the functionality represented in the prototype, including the clone functionality that pre-fills all of the information from the cloned course and the compact design that puts the efficient use for power users over the needs of beginner users. This is being measured both with the task completion time, including the time to create a new event, clone an event, modified fields of cloned events and the number of errors they commit during the testing session. Some alternative data that we could collect is the number of interactions (mouse clicks and keystrokes) the user performs for each task.



